Introduction to git and github
It is very crucial and we have to master git as fast as possible 
learn git over anyother techstacka s for remote work teh foirst thing they see is your github profile
Sooner you learn the Better

Course Topic
	Most IMportant
	Git
		Core Functionality of Git
			Intro to git
			INstallation
			GIt basics
			COmmiting in detail
			Branching
			Merging
		Next Level git
			Diffing
			Stashing
			Undoing CHanges

	Git Hub
		Core Github
			Github INtro
			Fethcing and Pulling
			Github Odds and ends
			Collaboration workflows

		next Level Github
			Rebasing
			Interactive Rebasing
			GIt tags
			GIt behind scenes
			reflogs
			Custom aliases

Exercises - We ahve ot breathe git that is practice daily else it is really difficult
	Do the Exercises at the end of the most sections

Keep using never wwtch someoen use git for more use case understandings



Module 1:
Introduction to Git
	What is Git?
		it si a version control system[VCS]
		Version control -- it is a s/w that tracks and manages files over time
			as millions of contributors worling in parallel and making changes so we use versiuoncontrol ssytem
		VCS aloows -- revisit earlier files , compare cahnges b/w changes , undo cahnges and a whole lot more

	Git os one of most pop vxs. - clear winner as a vcs

	it is a free and open source distributed vcs to handle every large project with efficiency and speed management of projects.


	Visualization
		track changes acrooss files
		compare versions of a project
		time travel back to old verison
		revert to prev versinos
		Collaborate adn share changes
		combine changes betwen collaborators

		Visualize:
		There are diffrent Check Points to save our progress.

		Ex:
		write essay and we save diffrent fiels for diffrent versions and we would compare and seelc teh best one

		Git helps to keep track of all the changes we do
		with git we create checkpoints or save files, at diffrent phases and we add checpoints

			we can also collaborate and do it
		we can also have branches and create some other timeline or alternte
			the main branch is still there we can then merge the brances also
		Git helps amnage all and all the process can exist and make it better and compare also

		We share those cahnges we do wthile working ont eh project


History of Git
	Linus Torvalds -- created git and linux
		pro for open source projects
	earlier bitkeeper was used , so they started changing money at the end .

git - global information tracker



Who uses Git? 
	Engineers and Coders , Developers
	Companies
	Entreprenaurs
	Scientists 
	Writers
	 Basically anyone can use whoever wants to have saved changes and can navigate between teh changes and also collaborate with others.


Git Vs Github
	Git is Vcs that runs on local machines , no need an account or internet

	Github is a service that hosets the git repositorie scloud and makes it easier to collaborate on ther people.
	We have to have an account and we can share the projects online and collaborate and vice versa.
	whenever we wnt to collaborate then we can easily use githubnandd add ons and modify and share back  and work together.


Module 2:

Installation and Setup:
	It is always suggested to change to a linux / Ubuntu based Operating system compared ot a Windows OPerating System


Git was creted as a command - line tool . to use it we run various git cmds on unix shell.
	it is the core of git and not beginner friendly 	
To Overcome thsi we ahve GUI's. allow people to use visualized git to a terminal.
	there are a lot of GUI's these days -help visualize and interacat with git instead of a terminal

sudo apt-get install git -- to install git onto linux


It is good to master the Commang line as ocmpare dot gui as most of the develoer use these as compare dot the GUI.

Just to visually illustraet teh conceps we see GUI
	we also translate and can be seen using gui.
MOst Macs have pre-installed gits - 
	we have to have a higher versions of git
We jsu tuse teh terminal in mac and Linux



